Blog post: RIP to the UI? (#18384)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/rip-to-the-ui.mdx

Reviewer: We're going to publish this one as a newsletter next week which overlaps a bit: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/18063

---

> date: "2026-07-08"

Author: note to self to update date before merging

> title: "RIP to the UI?"

Reviewer: I think we could do a bit more with the title

```suggestion
title: "Are agents really killing UI?"
```

```suggestion
title: "Is UI really as dead as people say it is?"
```

```suggestion
title: "Agents are killing UI (and also reviving it)"
```

author:
  - cleo-lant
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/RIP_to_the_UI_a3fcb3f5ea.png
featuredImageType: full
category: Blog
tags:
  - AI
  - Product engineers
seo:
  {
    metaTitle: "RIP to the UI?",
    metaDescription: "Your best user doesn't use a mouse. Your most important one still does. Why the future is hybrid, not headless – and what to build for both.",
  }
---

The UI is dead. Or so I keep hearing.

Agents are your users now, software is [losing its head](https://a16z.com/is-software-losing-its-head/), and everyone who learned Figma should start learning Bash.

Maybe the UI is dead in the four square blocks of San Francisco where everyone's running three Mac minis with clawbots. But I'm a regular person at a screen for most of my day, and so are the people I build for.

Here's my take:

- everything is a user interface if I'm using it
- my agents are using it too now, just not the part you designed
- headless is a new layer on top of product building, the same way APIs and the GUI once were
- which means the screen matters more than it used to, not less

> 

Reviewer: I really do not understand how "Which means the screen matters more than it used to, not less" follows from all these points, especially the point before it. 

```suggestion
- Everything is a user interface if I'm using it
- My agents are using products too now, just not the part you designed
- Headless is a new layer on top of product building, the same way APIs and the GUI once were
- Which means the screen matters more than it used to, not less

```

> If you're a product builder, congratulations! That means your job just doubled: every user of your product is potentially bringing an agentic plus-one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're a product builder, congratulations! That means your job just doubled: every user of your product is bringing an agentic plus-one.
```

Here's what we've learned building for a hybrid (not headless) future.

> ## 1. If a human can do it, an agent should too

Reviewer: I don't think we need the numbers because we don't really say anything about numbers
```suggestion
## If a human can do it, an agent should too
```

If you're new to this whole "agentic users" thing, start here. Anything a human can do in your product, [an agent needs a way to do as well](/newsletter/agent-first-product-engineering).

> 

Reviewer: The first sentence doesn't really say anything (it's the start of the article so they are going to start here anyways), the second just repeats the title. 
```suggestion
```

Mostly, agents don't touch your UI. Some can (computer-use agents like Perplexity's Comet will click around a live DOM), but that's slow and human-shaped. Agents work better with SQL, tool calls, and APIs.

Netlify has a name for getting this right: [agent experience](https://www.netlify.com/agent-experience/), or AX, how easily an agent can use your product and recover when something breaks. The standard for this is [MCP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io): you run a server that describes what your product can do and what it knows, and any agent can connect to it, see what's on offer, and call it directly.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Netlify has a name for getting this right: [agent experience](https://www.netlify.com/agent-experience/), or AX, how easily an agent can use your product and recover when something breaks. The standard for this is [MCP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io): you run a server that describes what your product can do, an agent can connect to it, see what's on offer, and interact with your product directly.

```

Every action you hand an agent creates a new job for your UI: someone has to be able to see that it happened.

**What this looks like:**

> - [Vercel's MCP server](https://vercel.com/blog/introducing-vercel-mcp-connect-vercel-to-your-ai-tools) lets an agent inspect deployments, pull runtime logs, and trigger deploys. When it ships something, that deploy appears in the human UI too (the Vercel dashboard), with the same logs and rollback capabilities.

Reviewer: Is there something we can say other that "deploys" twice in the first sentence?

> - Our own [MCP server](/docs/model-context-protocol) lets an agent create a feature flag or launch an experiment using your credentials. Since it's acting as you, the change lands in the project's activity log attributed to your account, with the calling client recorded alongside it (the `x-posthog-client` header), so you can filter the log for changes an agent made rather than a person.

Reviewer: calling client = agent? 
```suggestion
- Our own [MCP server](/docs/model-context-protocol) lets an agent create a feature flag or launch an experiment using your credentials. Changes land in the project's activity log attributed to your account, with the calling client recorded alongside it (the `x-posthog-client` header), so you can filter for changes an agent made rather than a person.
```

<CalloutBox icon="IconTerminal" title="Go build:" type="fyi">

> Build two things for every action. First, a way for the agent to do it: an MCP that covers everything a human can do in your product. Second, a way for the person to check it got done: a record of what changed, when, and who asked for it. Unlike a magician, you *do* want people looking up your sleeve. Try running your whole product through an agent, and identify the handoff points (there are probably way more than you think).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build two things for every action. 

1. A way for the agent to do it: an MCP that covers everything a human can do in your product. 
2. A way for the person to check it got done: a record of what changed, when, and who asked for it. 

Unlike a magician, you *do* want people looking up your sleeve. Try running your whole product through an agent, and identify the handoff points (there are probably way more than you think).
```

</CalloutBox>

> ## 2. Your homepage isn't the front door

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Your homepage isn't the front door
```

If you're building for a technical audience, onboarding them into your product increasingly won't start from a "get started" button. It'll start in a terminal or an AI chat window. This is less true for consumer products, but the pattern is still spreading – especially if your [AEO](/blog/aeo-advice) game is strong. A new user chatting with Claude or ChatGPT may never see your homepage at all. They'll ask the agent for a recommendation, it'll point them at you, and (with user permission and a good MCP) set up your product right in the chat window.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're building for a technical audience, onboarding them into your product increasingly won't start from a "get started" button. It'll start in a terminal or an AI chat window. 

This is less true for consumer products, but the pattern is spreading – especially if your [AEO](/blog/aeo-advice) game is strong. A new user chatting with Claude or ChatGPT may never see your homepage at all. They'll ask the agent for a recommendation, it'll point them at you, and (with user permission and a good MCP) set up your product right in the chat window.

```

The catch is you can't count on the agent to read your install docs. A capable one might go looking, but plenty won't. So setup has to be something an agent can finish on its own: easy to find, easy to authenticate into, and done in one call instead of ten steps.

Get that right and you've handled the agent. You still haven't handled the person. Eventually, they'll open the product and need to work out what it does, and what to do next. That requires UI, baby!

**What this looks like:**

> - The fastest way to try PostHog is a single `npx` [command](/docs/getting-started/install) that sets up your account and scans your codebase to work out what to instrument, logging each step in your terminal as it goes ([here's how we built it](/blog/envoy-wizard-llm-agent)). Once it's done, people tend to open the web app anyway, to see their data and start playing with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The fastest way to try PostHog is the `npx -y @posthog/wizard@latest` [command](/docs/getting-started/install) that sets up your account, scans your codebase for what to instrument, and logs each step in your terminal as it goes ([here's how we built it](/blog/envoy-wizard-llm-agent)). Once it's done, people tend to open the web app anyway, to see their data and start playing with it.
```

Reviewer: Is that last bit (tend to open the web app anyway) true? I might assume a significant amount of people immediately use the MCP to start messing around with things.

> - Our [Slack app](/blog/slack-app-beta) turns a message in a channel into a draft PR. You watch the agent's thought process in the thread, then go read the diff in the GitHub web UI before merging it. Usually there's nothing to change. But sometimes there's a bit you'd do differently, or context you left out of the prompt that would polish the output.

Reviewer: I don't think this adds anything
```suggestion
- Our [Slack app](/blog/slack-app-beta) turns a message in a channel into a draft PR. You watch the agent's thought process in the thread, then go read the diff in the GitHub web UI before merging it.
```

- [AgentMail](https://docs.agentmail.to/agent-onboarding)'s onboarding docs teach the agent to provision an inbox and key itself, no console required. Even there, a human UI is needed, and that UI is email: a six-digit code gets sent to a person, and until someone opens it and hands it over, the agent can only send mail to the address it signed up with.

<CalloutBox icon="IconSparkles" title="Go build:" type="fyi">

Build both front doors. For the agent: a signup flow it can finish end to end ([fork ours](https://github.com/PostHog/wizard), our competitors already have), a listing wherever agents go looking for connectors (the Claude and Codex app directories, for a start), docs it can parse (an llms.txt, pages served as plain Markdown), and auth that's safe when it improvises (short-lived, scoped tokens). For the human: where you start them depends on how they got there. If an agent set things up, they're landing in the middle of a process they never saw, so show them what got instrumented and what's missing. If they did it themselves, just point them at the next step.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build both front doors. 

- For the agent: a signup flow it can finish end to end ([fork ours](https://github.com/PostHog/wizard), our competitors already have), a listing where agents look for connectors (like the Claude and Codex app directories), docs it can parse (an llms.txt, pages served as plain Markdown), and auth that's safe when it improvises (short-lived, scoped tokens). 

- For the human: where you start them depends on how they got there. If an agent set things up, they're landing in the middle of a process they never saw, so show them what got instrumented and what's missing. If they did it themselves, just point them at the next step.

```

</CalloutBox>

![Can't see without my UI](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/cant_see_without_my_ui_e9008a850f.png)

> ## 3. Watch what agents actually do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Watch what agents actually do
```

> Here's what's probably happening in your product right now. Agents are hitting your API rather than your front end, so pageviews and autocapture don't fire. What lands instead are server-side requests that look like any other integration. There's usually a user agent string in there somewhere, but nothing that says what the agent was trying to do, or whether it managed it. You can see the requests, but not the user. So when something breaks, you're guessing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's what's probably happening in your product right now. Agents are hitting your API rather than your front end, so pageviews and autocapture don't fire. Server-side requests that look like any other integration land instead. There's usually a user agent string somewhere, but nothing that says what the agent was trying to do, or whether it managed it. When something breaks, you're guessing.
```

> Agents also fail differently from human users. Human failure leaves marks all over the UI (rage clicks, abandoned forms), which is why [session recordings](/session-replay) are such a goldmine. An agent fails as an error category in a log: it invents a parameter and trips validation, hits a permission wall, times out, or hallucinates a tool that was never there. Sometimes it just gives up without saying so. Nothing touched the interface, so there's nothing for a replay to catch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agents fail differently than humans. Human failure leaves marks all over the UI (rage clicks, abandoned forms), which is why [session recordings](/session-replay) are such a goldmine. An agent fails as an error category in a log: it invents a parameter, trips validation, hits a permission wall, times out, hallucinates a tool, or just gives up without saying so. Nothing touched the interface, so there's nothing for a replay to catch.
```

> [MCP Analytics](/docs/mcp-analytics) covers the agents turning up at your MCP server, and [AI observability](/docs/ai-engineering/observability) covers the ones you ship yourself. Every failure you find is a place your product is hard for an agent to use, and the most useful signal of all is the tool an agent reached for that you never built – a feature request, written by a robot. Last month, ours clustered close to 10 million tool calls from 31 different agent clients. Real people, running things like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[MCP Analytics](/docs/mcp-analytics) covers the agents using your MCP server, and [AI Observability](/ai-observability) covers the ones you ship yourself. Every failure you find is a place your product is hard for an agent to use. The most useful signal are the tools an agent reached for that you never built – a feature request, written by a robot. Last month, ours clustered close to 10 million tool calls from 31 different agent clients. Real people, running things like this:
```

> - Wired PostHog into a text-message assistant so it pings them the moment a metric moves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wired PostHog to send a text message the moment a metric moves.
```

- Shipped an A/B test on a "skip the intro" screen – feature flag, 50/50 split, and all.
- Built an activation-to-paid funnel.
- Triaged live production errors like expired magic links and missing auth sessions.

> What's missing from those examples is the PostHog UI. What's not missing is UI. Those 31 clients (Claude Code, Cursor, Cowork, Linear, Notion) all have a screen. A terminal is a UI. A chat window is a UI. [Slack is a UI](/blog/slack-app-beta). Your users are still looking at a screen, just not yours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What's missing is a not a UI, but the PostHog UI specifically. Those 31 clients like Claude Code, Cursor, Cowork, Linear, Notion all have a screen. A terminal is a UI. A chat window is a UI. [Slack is a UI](/blog/slack-app-beta). Your users are still looking at a screen, just not yours.
```

![MCP Analytics dashboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/mcp_dashboard_light_0907967b56.png)

<Caption>How's this for meta: the query I ran to pull those examples showed up, seconds later, as a sample intent in the same dashboard. The tool using the tool.</Caption>

**What this looks like:**

> - In June, Cloudflare's [Radar data](https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/bot-web-traffic-overtaken-human-web-traffic-data-shows-rcna348522) showed automated requests overtaking human ones on HTML traffic for the first time, 57.5% to 42.5%, about 18 months earlier than its CEO had predicted. You can read that as the end of the screen if you like. I read it as a lot of people asking for things, then going somewhere to look at the answer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In June, Cloudflare's [Radar data](https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/bot-web-traffic-overtaken-human-web-traffic-data-shows-rcna348522) showed automated requests overtaking human ones on HTML traffic for the first time, 57.5% to 42.5%, about 18 months earlier than its CEO had predicted. You can read that as the end of the screen if you like. I read it as a lot of people asking for things, then agents going to look at the answer.
```

- [Temporal](https://temporal.io/solutions/ai) records every step of an agent's run as a durable event history you can replay and inspect, so you can see exactly where a loop stalled or repeated itself.

<CalloutBox icon="IconGraph" title="Go build:" type="fyi">

Instrument agent traffic the way you already instrument humans: tag every call with the client it came from, then watch where agents retry or give up. And enjoy the irony, because the thing you build to watch a swarm of agents who never touch a UI is a dashboard. A UI. You can't hold a thousand silent agent runs in your head, so even here the answer is a screen for a human to read.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instrument agent traffic the way you already instrument humans: tag every call with the client it came from, then watch where agents retry or give up. And enjoy the irony, because the thing you built to watch a swarm of agents who never touch a UI is... a UI. You can't hold a thousand silent agent runs in your head, so even here the answer is a screen for a human to read.

```

</CalloutBox>

<div style="text-align: center;">
<img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/truman_show_3cb839fddf.jpeg" alt="The Truman Show: what we see vs what they see" />
</div>

> ## 4. Build an interface worth interacting with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Build an interface worth interacting with
```

> A good UI gives you a sense of state at a glance, the way a door handle tells you to push or pull (Danilo wrote a [whole thing](/newsletter/good-taste-great-products) on affordances). On a screen, that looks like a spinner that means *wait*, a greyed-out button that means *not yet*, or a red badge that means *look here!* As a human being, I take that in ten zillion times faster than I'd skim the equivalent wall of AI-generated text in a terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A good UI gives you a sense of state at a glance, the way a door handle tells you to push or pull (Danilo wrote a [whole thing](/newsletter/good-taste-great-products) on affordances). On a screen, that looks like a spinner that means *wait*, a greyed-out button that means *not yet*, or a red badge that means *look here!* As a human being, I take that in ten zillion times faster than I'd skim the equivalent wall of AI-generated text.
```

That's what you want when you're checking an agent's work. Even if you do believe the UI is dead, and you won't build one for your product, someone still has to decide whether to ship what the agent produced, and that decision happens through some kind of interface.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You want an interface when you're checking an agent's work. Even if you do believe the UI is dead, and you won't build one for your product, someone still has to decide whether to ship what the agent produced, and that decision happens through some kind of interface.

```

- **Approval.** The agent has the change ready and needs a yes. Can the human tell what they're saying yes to in two seconds?
- **Review.** Not a summary of what changed. The change itself. A diff beats a paragraph.
- **Undo.** When the agent gets it wrong, there needs to be a way back.
- **Legibility.** A feed you can scan to instantly tell which actions came from a colleague and which came from a bot.
- **Orchestration.** If five agents are running at once, do you watch them on one screen, or open five chats?
- **Interruption.** When you need to steer the agent while it's still moving.

Those are much better design problems than another login page.

**What this looks like:**

- Intercom's [Fin Operator](https://www.intercom.com/blog/introducing-operator/) tunes Fin for you, then hands the work back as a screen. Every change arrives as a proposal (their words: "Operator's version of a pull request"), a structured diff of what's changing and why, which you review, edit, and approve before it takes effect. The agent does the work. The human decides what ships.

> - Anthropic could have left Claude Code in the terminal. Instead it ships a desktop app, a web app, IDE extensions, and Cowork, all wrapping the same models in more interface. Some people love the CLI precisely because there's so little UI in the way, and others go straight for Cowork.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Anthropic could have left Claude Code in the terminal. Instead it shipped a desktop app, a web app, IDE extensions, and Cowork, all wrapping the same models in more interfaces. Some people love the CLI precisely because there's so little UI in the way, and others [go straight for Cowork](/blog/making-claude-cowork-actually-useful).
```

> - We're betting on [self-driving](/blog/what-if-your-product-built-itself), where agents run most of the loop themselves. That made the screen more important, not less. Nobody wants to watch an agent work; they want to see what it did. So [PostHog Desktop](/desktop) is where the outcomes land – bugs fixed, PRs merged – and where you approve them or take the wheel back.

Reviewer: I don't understand this?

> That made the screen more important, not less.
```suggestion
- We're betting on [self-driving](/blog/what-if-your-product-built-itself), where agents run most of the product improvement loop themselves. That made the screen more important, not less. Nobody wants to watch an agent work; they want to see what it did. So [PostHog Desktop](/desktop) is where the outcomes land – bugs fixed, PRs merged – and where you approve them or take the wheel back.
```

</CalloutBox>

## The future is hybrid (not headless)

Agents might be the primary users of software soon, by sheer volume. But by _meaning_? There's no agent without me. Text scrolls past and I skim it. A screen makes me stop and look. Looking (and clicking around a UI) is where I catch what the agent got wrong, and where I still feel like I'm holding the wheel.

None of which means the plumbing doesn't count. Good products for agents really are, under the hood, a pile of Markdown, SQL, tools, and resources. But I'm a human living in a home, not a data center. So give me _and_ my agents a reason to use your thing, and you'll be in good shape.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
None of which means the plumbing doesn't count. Good products for agents really are a pile of Markdown, SQL, tools, and resources under the hood. But I'm a human living in a home, not a data center. So give me _and_ my agents a reason to use your thing, and you'll be in good shape.

```

showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/RIP_to_the_UI_a3fcb3f5ea.png
featuredImageType: full
category: Blog
tags:
  - AI
  - Product engineers
seo:
  {
    metaTitle: "RIP to the UI?",
    metaDescription: "Your best user doesn't use a mouse. Your most important one still does. Why the future is hybrid, not headless – and what to build for both.",
  }
---

Agents are your users now, product design is a dying art, and everyone who learned Figma should start learning Bash.

Is that the post you were expecting? Nah, here's what's actually happening.

Every human interested in your product now shows up with an uninvited plus-one. It's an agent (or many), and it doesn't care what font you picked.

At PostHog, we've spent the last while reshaping our products for this new clientele – things like our [MCP server](/docs/model-context-protocol), our [CLI](/docs/getting-started/install), and [context mill](https://github.com/PostHog/context-mill). At the same time, we've been shipping more charts, screens, and "clicky stuff" than ever.

What gives? Well, if you ask me, the UI isn't dead. It's just not the way agents get in.

> Here's what we've learned about building products for a hybrid (not headless) future:

Reviewer 2: Just directly: This opening feels more confused than I think it needs to be. I'd cut the first three lines and jump straight to the actual point: "We've been reshaping our products to work better with agents, but we've also been shipping more UI than ever before. So, has AI killed UI? I don't think so. The future of interfaces isn't completely headless; it's hybrid."

> Here's what we've learned about building products for a hybrid (not headless) future:

Reviewer: I think the article is good, I just don't know the title is right based on what you actually write about. 

With "RIP to the UI?" I'd expect a more personal and opinionated piece like Joe mentions. 

This could be something like "What we've learned about building headlessly for AI agents"

Reviewer: In the opposite direction something like "UI is not as dead as people think it is" could be interesting. I think the current title is missing some of the oompf you'd like to get people to click. The question mark is a bit hedging like "RIP to the UI (maybe???)"

## 1. Make your onboarding agent-friendly

For a growing number of software products, onboarding doesn't start from a "get started" button. It starts in a terminal or a chat window. If your [AEO](/blog/aeo-advice) game is strong, the user may never have seen your homepage at all – Claude or ChatGPT recommended your product to a person, they replied "go for it," and the agent went ahead and set it up.

**What this looks like:**

- The fastest way to try PostHog today is a single command – an `npx` [wizard](/docs/getting-started/install) that sets up your account and scans your codebase to work out what to instrument. Here's [how we built it](/blog/envoy-wizard-llm-agent).
- [AgentMail](https://docs.agentmail.to/agent-onboarding)'s onboarding docs teach the agent to provision an inbox and key itself.
- MCP standardized on OAuth 2.1 so access is scoped, revocable, and granted once. When there's no browser at all (CI, a bare terminal), the device authorization flow does the same job with a short code.

<CalloutBox icon="IconSparkles" title="Go build:" type="fyi">

> A setup wizard, and a signup flow an agent can complete end to end. [You can fork ours here](https://github.com/PostHog/wizard) (our competitors already have). Then treat your docs like the conversion surface they've become: publish an llms.txt, serve pages as plain markdown, and put the answer at the top of every article.

Reviewer 2: Spicy!

</CalloutBox>

> ## 2. Treat agents as first-class citizens

Reviewer 2: I think this point should come first. This is the philosophical starting point that tactics then build on.

- Notion built their [hosted MCP](https://www.notion.com/blog/notions-hosted-mcp-server-an-inside-look) in Markdown, not JSON.
- Salesforce shipped [Headless 360](https://www.salesforce.com/news/stories/salesforce-headless-360-announcement/), which exposes its data and workflows as APIs, MCP tools, and CLI commands so agents can act without ever touching the UI.
- [Vercel's MCP server](https://vercel.com/blog/introducing-vercel-mcp-connect-vercel-to-your-ai-tools) lets an agent inspect deployments, pull runtime logs, and trigger deploys with the same account access a human gets in the dashboard – no screen required.

<CalloutBox icon="IconTerminal" title="Go build:" type="fyi">

An MCP that covers every action a human can take, expressed in primitives LLMs already speak. Run the dead-end audit. Rewrite your errors as instructions. Make your writes safe to repeat, so an agent that retries a call doesn't create two of everything. Then dogfood the whole thing headlessly. If you want a rubric for whether the agent is actually doing the job (not just sounding like it), [we wrote one](/blog/testing-ai-agents).

</CalloutBox>

## 3. Feed agents context (or they'll invent it)

> An agent arrives in your product enormously capable and completely ignorant. Your product might be the best toy ever, but if the batteries aren't included, Christmas morning is going to be disappointing. To [make it smart](/newsletter/building-ai-agents), two halves have to work.

Reviewer 2: This feels LLMy to me and doesn't clearly say what you mean.

</CalloutBox>

## 4. Track what agents do

There's a second context blind spot: the agent itself. Most product teams have years of analytics on human sessions and zip on agent ones. You can't build for a user you can't see, so watch what agents call, what they retry, and where they give up – the same way you'd watch the [AI features you ship](/blog/what-is-ai-observability).

Here's how we do it: we built [MCP Analytics](/docs/mcp-analytics), which clusters what agents are actually trying to do on any MCP server (including our own).

In June, PostHog's MCP fielded more than 11 million tool calls from around 30 different agent clients. Real people ran things like this through our MCP:

- Wired PostHog into a text-message assistant so it pings them the moment a metric moves.
- Shipped an A/B test on a "skip the intro" screen – feature flag, 50/50 split, and all.
- Built an activation-to-paid funnel.
- Audited whether a customer's referral reward was legitimately earned.
- Triaged live production errors like expired magic links and missing auth sessions.

> What's missing from these examples? The PostHog UI. But the UI didn't disappear _entirely_. A terminal is a UI. A Claude chat is a UI. [Slack is a UI](/blog/slack-app-beta). Your users are reaching you through surfaces you don't own and can't fully control.

Reviewer 2: Leap of intuition, but: This feels like the point you really want to make. 

The what we've learned about building hybrid UI stuff is great and I don't think you should lose it. But going from the PR description and the previous conversations we've had this blog post feels much less personally opinionated than I expected -- is this an area where you have more to say?

Author: I needed this push. I started writing with strong feelings and then got way too practical. Incoming rewrite!

<Caption>How's this for meta: the query I ran to pull those examples showed up, seconds later, as a sample intent in the same dashboard. The tool using the tool.</Caption>

**What this looks like:**

- In June, Cloudflare's [Radar data](https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/bot-web-traffic-overtaken-human-web-traffic-data-shows-rcna348522) showed automated requests overtaking human ones on HTML traffic for the first time, 57.5% to 42.5% – about 18 months earlier than its CEO had predicted.
- [Temporal](https://temporal.io/solutions/ai) records every step of an agent's run (each LLM call, tool invocation, retry, and failure) as a durable event history you can replay and inspect. You can see exactly where a loop stalled or repeated itself.

<CalloutBox icon="IconGraph" title="Go build:" type="fyi">

Analytics for your agent users, not just your humans. Start by finding out which agent clients are even showing up, then watch where they retry or give up. When a tool starts failing, check whether your description misled the agent before you assume your code is broken.

</CalloutBox>

## 5. Price agent and human usage differently

> In February, the software industry had a collective panic attack. Around [$300 billion](https://www.forbes.com/sites/donmuir/2026/02/04/300-billion-evaporated-the-saaspocalypse-has-begun/) in market value evaporated in roughly 48 hours, Wall Street named it the SaaSpocalypse (great branding), and by spring the number was closer to [$2 trillion](https://www.saastr.com/the-saas-rout-of-2026-is-even-worse-than-you-think-for-the-first-time-ever-software-now-trades-at-a-discount-to-the-sp-500/). The logic behind it: if one agent does the work of ten people, you don't buy ten software seats.

Reviewer 2: This feels like it could work into the opening.

> We've had [usage-based pricing](/newsletter/pricing-advice) since the start, and not by accident: it keeps incentives honest – when a customer wants a smaller bill, our answer is "send us less data you never look at," not a discount negotiation. Getting the model right is genuinely hard, and it matters more than almost anything else you'll decide, so don't expect to nail it on the first try. Ship a version, watch what agents and humans actually cost you, and adjust.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've had [usage-based pricing](/newsletter/pricing-advice) since the start because it aligns user interests with ours (you only pay for what you send us, we don't store things you won't pay for). Getting the model right is genuinely hard, and it matters more than almost anything else you'll decide, so don't expect to nail it on the first try. Ship a version, watch what agents and humans actually cost you, and adjust.
```

This feels a little clearer.

**What this looks like:**

- Salesforce keeps a per-seat license for its human reps (Service Cloud Enterprise runs about $165 a seat), but bills [Agentforce](https://www.salesforce.com/agentforce/pricing/) conversations separately at roughly $2 each.
- Zendesk charges per agent seat for its human staff, then bills again per automated resolution (around $1.50–$2 apiece) – a team pays for human seats and agent output side by side, not one or the other.
- Stripe ships its own [token and usage meters](https://docs.stripe.com/mcp) so agent traffic gets billed by consumption while the human dashboard stays on its existing plan.

<CalloutBox icon="IconReceipt" title="Go build:" type="fyi">

Meter the surface your agents actually touch – API calls, tokens, actions taken – and charge your humans for the value they get. Charge them both the same way and you'll either eat the agent's bill or overcharge the human.

</CalloutBox>

> ## 6. Keep building great UI anyway

Reviewer 2: See, this is the personal opinion bit!

> ## 6. Keep building great UI anyway

Reviewer: Maybe this is not so much "build a great UI" but build a new UI tailored to agents. I realize this doesn't go with your Wealthsimple example but the section seems to mostly about the new UIs and how they are tailored to agents. 

I'm not getting how well-designed, pre-agent UIs are still better here (which is what I expect when reading the title).

Reviewer: Something something "New jobs of UI"

Uno reverse. I spent five sections telling you to deprioritize the interface and build for agents. Now I'll offer UI as your key differentiator.

When an agent acts, the human it acted for needs to understand what it did and why. Chat alone doesn't fix this. It's fine for poking around, but for repeated work it turns everything into a wall of text you'll skim and not really absorb.

> **Here's a concrete example**. I used to be convinced my taxes were hard – until I filed through Wealthsimple instead of UFile. UFile hands you something close to the government's own PDF and wishes you luck (an awful experience that hasn't changed in a decade). Wealthsimple asks one plain question at a time in a slick, web-based form that saves as you go.

Reviewer: I'm not fully sold this is a good example. It doesn't really have anything to do with agents. You're comparing a bad UI to a good UI, but I'd sort of expect a comparison of a agent-first UI to a good UI to prove that good UI has a place in the world in the age of agents.

- Linear has started writing [interaction guidelines](https://linear.app/developers/aig) for this: an agent should always be legible as an agent, and its work shows up somewhere a human can review it.
- GitHub credits both sides now. Bot accounts carry a [bot] badge, and [generated release notes](https://github.blog/changelog/2026-06-18-generated-release-notes-credit-you-for-copilot-pull-requests/) credit the human who kicked off a Copilot PR, not just the agent that typed it.

<CalloutBox icon="IconLaptop" title="Go build:" type="fyi">

Surfaces for reviewing, approving, and overriding agent work – and make agent actions legible _as_ agent actions. Make the surface areas agents don't touch as delightful as possible.

</CalloutBox>

![Can't see without my UI](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/cant_see_without_my_ui_e9008a850f.png)

> ## The future is hybrid (not headless)

Reviewer: I think this sort of makes the same point as the previous section but with more specifics (which is good). I realize that the section before is long already, but potentially combine depending on how your edits go?
